# Sequence Expectimax Agent
## Requirements
Python 3.12
Runs on a regular laptop or desktop.  

Install Dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## How to run
To run the headless version of the Expectimax agent:
```
cd src/
python agent.py
```

## Problem Statement

## Related Solutions to Similar Problems

## Game Rules
The objective of the game is to create rows, columns or diagonals of 6 connected chips on the board. The game ends when someone has reached 1 row of 6 connected chips. Thus, the problem is to create an optimal algorithm that is able to decide which card to play to win the game by analyzing the board. The algorithm is also to be able to decide the next step in which to place a chip by playing the card in hand or to block the opponents. 


## Objective of the agent 
The agent is designed to play the board game using an Expectimax agent.

## Nature of the game
The randomness of the game with a large state space have make it non-trivial as the player have to determine if it more beneifitcial to use their turn to build on their own sequence or block their opponent’s sequence. The uncertainty of the cards of the other player and the state transitions of the board game have cause the game to be very complex. The state space is partial observability. As players are only able to see their cards in hand as well as the placement of the chip throughout the game. Player is not able to observe the card in other player's hands including their teammate.

## State Space
There is a board of 100 spaces, each space represents a card. Each space can either have a chip or not have a chip. The cards can either be in the card deck, in the player’s hand, or in the discard pile. The state space is every possible arrangement of chips being on the board.

## Action space
This implementation leverages a 2 player game. The agent vs a random opponent.

Actions include: 
- Play a card from hand
- Placing a chip on the corresponding board space 
- Removing an opponent’s chip (if player played a one-eyed jack)
- Placing a chip anywhere on the board (if player played a two-eyed jack)
- Draw a replacement card after each move

# Solution Method
Expectimax Algorithm

## Implementation of Expectimax algorithm 

The algorithm models three types of nodes:
- **MAX node** :
The agent chooses the move that would return the highest evaluation score. The score is generated by the algorithm by the direction of the existing chip on the board. If by adding the chip it forms a sequence horizontally, vertically or diagonally, the score is added. While if it doesnt form it is subtracted from the score. Extra score is given as a form of priority if it would complete the sequence (sequence = 6) or if the card is a 2 eye jack or a 1 eye jack.
 
- **CHANCE node** :
The opponent is a random player because the agent cannot see the opponent's hand. 

  Expected score = sum of (score for every opponent move / number of opponenet moves )



